cell society
====

This project implements a cellular automata simulator.

Names: Duy Trieu, Samuel Appiah-Kubi, Austin Kao

### Timeline

Start Date: 09/17/2018

Finish Date: 10/01/2018

Hours Spent: 120 Hours(altogether)

### Primary Roles
Duy Trieu: SimulationUI and Models
Samuel Appiah-Kubi: Simulation Backend and Models
Austin Kao: Simulation Backend, Models and XML

### Resources Used
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wa-Tor
https://natureofcode.com/book/chapter-7-cellular-automata/
https://www2.cs.duke.edu/courses/fall18/compsci308/assign/02_cellsociety/nifty/shiflet-fire/
https://www2.cs.duke.edu/courses/fall18/compsci308/assign/02_cellsociety/nifty/mccown-schelling-model-segregation/
Java Oracle Docs

### Running the Program

MainSimulation class: MainSimulation.java

Data files needed: Game_of_Life.xml, WaTor.xml, Segregation.xml, Spreading_Fire.xml, Game_Of_Life_Hex.xml, RockPaperScissors.xml

Interesting data files: None

Features implemented: Slider, GraphUI, Simulation Description

Assumptions or Simplifications: The graph displays timestep data regardless of the aggregated data.

Known Bugs: Sometimes the save and load buttons will not function properly based on the machine running the program.

Extra credit: None


### Notes
The Cell.java and Grid.java act as parent classes for all other simulations. For each simulation, new extensions of the Cell and Grid classes are created to model the simulation.  
The currently available simulations are Conway's Game of Life, Wa-Tor World of Predator Prey relationships, Spreading of Fire, Schelling's Model of Segregation, and Rock Paper Scissors.  
The Simulation UI class presents all options of selecting which model to run.  
The Play button in UI runs the simulation iteratively.  
The Step button in UI runs the simulation in a stepwise manner.  
The Reset button in UI resets the initialized values in the grid to rerun the simulation.  
Slider features are provided to change the grid size and simulation speed.  
The Save and Load buttons will prompt the user to save or load an XML file.

### Impressions
The statistical models generated by these Cellular Automata simulations are very effective at solving problems.